right we're interrupting that report to
take you live to Kan Unice in central
Gaza where the director of alifa
Hospital Muhammad Abu Salia is holding a
news conference after being recently
released by Israel let's listen ining
under dire conditions unprecedented
since the 1948 NAA they are they are
suffering Beyond description even those
who have been detained for more than 10
years they are deprived of the least of
their rights many of the Palestinian
diones were killed under interrogation
they were denied
food water and Medicine many of the
medical staff including doctors and
nurses I left them behind as they are
still in the Israeli
prisons from among the medical staff Dr
Adnan B and Dr were killed and may they
rest in peace the Israeli a
forces left has no regard to any red
lines they are dealing with the detes as
if they
are objects solid objects even the med
the Israeli medical staff instead of
providing Health Care to the Palestinian
detes they are instead beating battering
and torturing them the Israeli
occupation forces
and soldiers have no meaning of human
values they are torturing the
Palestinian Jones day and night denying
them the basic necessities I am not
going over the top if I if I say that
each and every Palestinian Dy has lost
at least 25 to 30
kgs even the Palestinian detes with
chronic disease like diabetes and cancer
they are denied medical attention if the
International Community the world
organizations the world health
organizations do not act swiftly more
Palestinian detes will continue to be
killed at the hands of the Israeli
occupation forces this is the message
I'm carrying from the Deton I left
behind again the issue of the detes must
be part and parcel of any negotiations
they must be part and parcel of any
deal as to the conditions of my
detention I was detained at the
net line in
November I was in contact with all the
officers who stormed alifa hostiles and
when we all left accompanied by the
International Red Cross the Palestinian
Red Cross we informed the Israeli
occupation forces that we are taking our
patients to the European hospitals yet
the Israeli occupation forces turned the
Blind Eye to all the international laws
and treaties and they detained me
without any charges even if I was put to
three four trials I was not given any
specific charge I was only informed that
I am detained till further notice this
means that the Israeli occupation forces
have been detaining me on no legal
grounds the Israeli occupation forces
stormed alifa hospital and they lied
they propagated false reports that they
found weapons inside the hospital this
Pro proves that my detention was on
malicious basis I reassure that I will
resume my duties as soon as it is
possible we by the grace of God will
rebuild ala hospital to be once again a
beacon for medical and health care not
only for the gazans but for all the
Palestinian people and Beyond within the
coming few months by the grace of God we
will be back back on our feet again
fully functioning and
operating while you were detained were
you following the news about the
destruction caus to Ala
Hospital honestly speaking I have
recently heard about this bad news there
is no doubt this came very heavy on my
heart ala hospital was a castle was a
fortress was a Beacon for health care
for the entire gazin this proves that
the Israeli occupation forces are
willfully and purposefully destroying
the medical institutions all across Gaza
no matter how grave this is we will
rebuild it and we will be back on our
feet again I was put to uh torture um
this uh my fingers are broken I was also
beaten and battered on my head I was put
to torture on daily basis myself
included with other Palestinian daes we
are daily beaten battered tortured and
abused physically and verbally I have
lived this experience very bitterly and
I once again call on the International
Community to do what is needed to put an
end to this
we have the orthopedic specialist Dr
Bassam who was also detained and
released and as you can see how many
pounds he has lost he has lost more than
30 kilog of his
weight while being detained under these
all right we've been listening there to
the director of alifa Hospital Muhammad
Abu Al salmia who was just recently
released by Israeli forces he was
arrested in November and has been
detained since then Dr alalia talking
about the conditions of his detention he
said that Palestinian detainees in
Israeli jails are tortured on a daily
basis day and night in fact he said he
said they were denied food water and
Medicine the issue of detainees he said
must be part and parcel of all
negotiations with Israel uh he was
detained on no legal grounds he says he
will resume his duties as soon as
possible and that they will rebuild
alifa Hospital let's listen once again
to Dr Abu Salia leveled against me I was
only told that I was detained for till
further notice I was not uh offered or
provided with any attorney nor was I
approached by any International
Organization during my
detention as I said there was no
specific charge leveled against me I was
detained on malicious PES the Israeli
falsely reported that the alcha hospital
was AAS for Hamas however they failed to
prove this in reality I was detained on
malicious Paces I was moved from one
prison to another including offer person
all of which
are
dire each and
every Palestinian datiny is living only
on one loaf of bread daily can you
imagine many of them are with chronic
disease diabetics and
Cancers however they are living in very
dire if not catastrophic conditions
all I can
say that the
Israeli occupation forces are verbally
and physically abusing us they are even
unleashing dogs on the dayon each and
every dayon is beaten and battered at
least three times every single day they
are deprived we the Deton were deprived
of mattresses and cover covers we are
not even offered the least of our basic
rights including food water and Medicine
the Israel occupation forces have turned
a blind eye to all rules laws or
measures applicable in such conditions
thank
you okay Okay so we've been listening
there to the director of Gaza alifa
Hospital Muhammad Abu salmia who's just
been released by Israeli forces he is
among 55 Palestinians whove been
released by Israel Dr Abu salmia
describing the conditions of his
detention there and the conditions of
other Palestinians in Israeli jails he
said he was moved from one prison to
another including offer prison he said
Palestinian detainees are subjected to
torture on daily basis by Israel they
are denied food water and medicine they
are beaten on a daily basis he said uh
there was no legal justification for his
detention Israel uh was uh of course
claiming that alifa was a base for Hamas
when they rated that hospital and
arrested the hospital's director let's
speak to manour Schuman once again who's
a Palestinian journalist and
humanitarian who's here in Doha with us
uh Mansour you were also arrested in 20
9 in the occupied West Bank so you know
the conditions that uh Dr Abu Salia
talks about in those Israeli jails that
beating the detention The Torture that
Palestinian prisoners are subjected to
on a daily basis yeah I mean I I nothing
like I'm sure what they're going through
right now there is no legal
representation no oversight from any
International agency it's just
continuous daily physical and mental
abuse um they are experts in that they
know how to drain the prisoners as you
saw some of those that were released
lost over 30 kilog but despite all of
that the thing that I'm so I mean I
think that the whole world now are
seeing that despite all of that look at
the resilience of Dr Muhammad and his
colleagues he says he'll resume his
duties as soon as possible and rebuild
alifa Hospital look at how positive they
are despite going through over six
months of of torture of horrendous dayto
day
um
uh despicable acts by by the Israelis
against him so like I said before um the
spirit of the Palestinians is only
getting stronger let's talk about our
shifa Hospital a little bit for our
viewers who may not not know this this
is gaza's biggest medical complex and uh
during the war in November it was the
main hospital where Palestinians were
being treated but Israel claims that
this was also hamas's base and this is
one of their justifications I guess for
arresting uh Dr Abu Salia no legal
reasons but they claim that this was
Hamas base talk to us about this
Hospital in in Gaza its importance and
why Israel insists that this is a a
Hamas
base uh they I think one of I think them
claiming that a shifer hospital was a
Hamas base and then once them going
going inside and not showing any kind of
proof to the world we did see some
videos that they claimed were you know
proof of Hamas being there but nothing
really substantial nothing substantial I
think that was a big change in how the
the whole world saw the Israeli
occupation and the lies and the
propaganda that they were playing into
and I don't know why they thought aifa
was a Hamas base but what I do know is
that it's not only um an international
Beacon for hope and health in Gaza but
for the whole world and ashifa uh is not
just one or two buildings it's over a
dozen different medical uh buildings
with specializations from all around the
world people who left the United States
Europe Palestinians and decided to go
back and live inside Gaza to try to
contribute to the Palestinian cause and
to help 2.3 million Palestinians
continue to live right now A shifa is
destroyed however they are rebuilding it
the dialysis center is now open slowly
the emergency unit is starting to to to
work again and I think Dr Muhammad we
will will see him at the top of his work
as soon as a ceasefire happens and the
NIT Sim uh people the the IDF in the NIT
Sim uh uh that is that is dividing North
and South leave and inshallah we can see
him back there together with the doctors
taking care of our patience thank you
thank you so much manour for joining us
once again manour Schuman a Palestinian
journalist on the newsour with
us make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get latest news from Al jazer